Added section on the use of language (#61)
getsentry/develop: src/docs/inclusion.mdx

---
title: "Inclusive Language"
---

Sentry is a product used and developed by many people from different cultural
backgrounds and we try to avoid language that has been identified as hurtful
or insensitive.  This applies not only to the documentation but also to the
product itself and internal APIs.

> What constitues as inclusive language will always be an evolving topic and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What constitutes as inclusive language will always be an evolving topic and
```

> because Sentry is a product with history it's likely that we will always carry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because Sentry is a product with history it is likely, that we will always carry
```

> something in the code base that is hard to get rid of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
something in the codebase that is hard to get rid of.
```

We use `codebase` in our "getting started" guide.

As such this document largely determines what should be done for new code, but
not necessarily for existing code.

## Phased Out Terms

We have identified some terms that we no longer want to use going forward but

> that might still exist in parts of the code base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that might still exist in parts of the codebase.
```

master/slave:

> : Generally the terms to be used in the context of databases should be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Generally, the terms to be used in the context of databases should be
```

  "primary"/"secondary" or "primary"/"replica".

whitelist/blacklist:

: Generally should not be used.  We try to avoid the word "list" now in general

>   and try to be more descriptive in the UI.  For instance the use of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and try to be more descriptive in the UI.  For instance, the use of
```

  "ip blacklist" has been changed to "ip filters" as part of the filter product.
  If you need a generic term "allowlist" and "denylist" or "blocklist" are
  good substitutions.

whitelisted/blacklisted:

: Try to avoid generic verbs here and better describe directly what it is

>   you're trying to do.  For instance we changed "whitelisted environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  you're trying to do.  For instance, we changed "whitelisted environment
```

>   you're trying to do.  For instance we changed "whitelisted environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  you are trying to do.  For instance, we changed "whitelisted environment
```

  variables" to "safe environment variables".

## Acceptable Terms

master:

: Master in isolation is acceptable if the origin of the term can exclude the
  associated meaning of "slave".  This for instance is the case when this is
  referred to as a "master copy", a "master degree" etc.  For the git branch
  name please see below.

## Git Branch Naming

> We're okay keeping the term "master" for existing repositories but it's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are okay keeping the term "master" for existing repositories but it's
```

> We're okay keeping the term "master" for existing repositories but it's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are okay keeping the term "master" for existing repositories but it is
```

generally recommended to change the default branch name to "main" going forward
on new repositories.  The term "master" in isolation is acceptable in general
however the history of the branch name in git comes from bitkeeper where this
terminology referred to master and slave repositories.  At present changing the
default branch on existing repositories has negative consequences for users

> that have already clonsed the repositories so these should not be changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that have already cloned the repositories so these should not be changed.
```

To reconfigure git to use a different default repo for `git init` a template
can be configured.  Put the following into your `~/.gitconfig`:

```ini {tabTitle: Git Config}
[init]
	templateDir = ~/.config/git/template/
```

And then create an appropriate template like this:

```bash
mkdir -p "$(git config --path --get init.templateDir)"
echo "ref: refs/heads/main" > "$(git config --path --get init.templateDir)/HEAD"
```

From this moment onwards future repositories will use the default branch name "main" instead.

## Changing Code

> If you identified code or comments that use problematic language you are free
> to change it.  However please be advised that some uses of problematic language
> haven't been phased out because they are backwards incomaptible changes and
> require a lot more work.  Specifically for instance the rate limiting code in
> Sentry uses the terms "whitelist" for persisted data and for consistency the
> code that deals with this data structure for now retains these uses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you identified code or comments that use a problematic language you are free
to change it.  However please be advised that some uses of problematic language
haven't been phased out because they are backward-incompatible changes and
require a lot more work.  Specifically, for instance, the rate-limiting code in
Sentry uses the terms "whitelist" for persisted data and for consistency the
code that deals with this data structure, for now, retains these uses.
```

> code that deals with this data structure for now retains these uses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you identified code or comments that use a problematic language you are free
to change it.  However please be advised that some uses of problematic language
have not been phased out because they are backward-incompatible changes and
require a lot more work.  Specifically, for instance, the rate-limiting code in
Sentry uses the terms "whitelist" for persisted data and for consistency the
code that deals with this data structure, for now, retains these uses.
```
